---
layout: post
title: Double-check everything. After that, check it again!
---
<h2>What did I do this past week?</h2>
<p>With work and everything this week was the first one with an all-nighter. Project 0 was due Thursday yet I had it ready since last week. I was simply missing some tests and neede to put in a pull request to upload them to github. Then, as I happily committed my code with simply formatting changes, Travis decided to update and break our makefile. This happened while I was working a shift from 4pm to midnight. Luckily I had my laptop with me and was able to SSH into the lab computers to try and fix it. Undoubtedly, fixing this last minute, while on a chromebook that's ssh'ed using HEB wi-fi, and on a 15min break began to produce errors I did not have before. Yet, I was able to turn in at 9:59pm. I was relieved. Mistakenly relieved, but relieved nonetheless. The following night I received an email that let me know my submission had problems. I had somehow gotten rid of my .gitignore file. How this affects the compolation of my code or any part of the project is beyond my understanding. (I had manually gone through and checked that I was submitting the essential pieces to the project, except of course, the file that automates getting rid of useless files) This cost me 20% of my grade. It is because of this that the title to this specific post is imperative: </p>
<p><strong>Double-check everything. After that, check it again!</strong></p>
<h2>What's in my way?</h2>
<p>Currently my schedule has been getting in my way a lot. I recently began working full-time at HEB thinking that I could manage 40 hrs. managing a small store in Far West and handle 429 and this class. It has worked out in the sense that I am getting stuff done, but I have absolutely no life now. My first day to disconnect from work and have some time to just play my guitar was yesterday from 4pm to 9pm. This is since the semester started. (About 3 weeks ago) But to be honest, this is what I signed up for and what I like to be doing. This class has left me with some frustration so far and getting past that is another thing in my way. I have been forced to learn new software as well as new ways of implementing, testing, and distributing code. It has not been a smooth ride, but I see now that the payoff from this will be immense. This class is going to be a strong point in my resumé not only because I am learning Object-Oriented programming, but because this class is teaching me how the Computer Science business works and what role I should be playing in it in order to be successul.</p>
<h2>What will I do next week?</h2>
<p>I will stay on top of the readings like I have been as well as Project 1, I can not allow myself to slip up things like forgetting a .gitignore on any other project. The first project in 429 is due on Friday but my partner and I are almost finished. I also have to find a partner which I can work with for the following project, preferably someone taking 429 as well that way we can maybe partner up for the next project. If you are reading this post and would like to partner up on the next project hit me up on Facebook. I will post a similar question on Piazza so I can reach the whole class and not just those who read the blogs.</p> 
<h2>Tip of the week: </h2>   
<p>As stated before, <strong>Double-check everything. After that, check it again!</strong></p>
<h2>Class this week: </h2>
<p>We looked heavily at pointers and references. The differences are interesting and allow for different ways of handling data from function to function. I had never heard of references before and when first introduced in class I was skeptical about their usefulness, but once class finished on Friday I was running various different methods in which a reference would not only be preferred, it would be necessary as to not use up memory and talk about the same variable (or data). I will admit though, they are very confusing at first, <a href="http://www.thegeekstuff.com/2013/05/cpp-reference-variable/">this</a> helped me clear things up through the week.</p>