---
layout: post
title: Finished with First Project.
---
## What did I do this past week? 
This past week was an intense one. I had my first project due in this class as well as my first Algo homework. Both had to be finished and turned in on Thursday. Although, to make it even more of a challenge one of my co-workers got sick this week and I had to close the store Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. _Closing requires me to stay at work until 12:30 am. I am in much need of sleep._ However, I was able to finish everything in a timely manner and without much difficulty. Getting an early start on the logic behind both the project and the homework I had to do helped me out when it came down to crunch time.

## What is in my way?
Currently, I need to get better at managing my sleep. My own schedule is against me, but that does not make my time impossible to manage. I need to get my work schedule more under control so that I can come home at a reasonable time to perform well at school. Other than that I feel that the readings and the daily quizzes are helping keep the knowledge fresh enough in my mind that it is soaking in well even with all the distractions around me. Definitely looking forward to the following projects where I get to work with other people and their schedules.

## What will I do next week?
My ultimate goal is to find a partner that can work with the schedule I have to follow. Doing full-time to pay the bills and for school can sometimes become a problem when doing group projects. Especially when there are only two people in the group. However, with enough effort and understanding, it is definitely possible. I still have to read the pair-programming paper for the week but it seems familiar, maybe I read it during 439. We learned a lot about pair programming in that class.

## What is my experience of the class?
With each lecture that passes by I feel more and more excited about what my career could look like. The real-life examples that are shared during class as well as the projects that are to come have a parallel with what goes on in the industry. These are the top 5 things that have stuck with me:
1. Build the most basic implementation.
2. Test the hell out of your code.
3. Have other people test your code.
4. Optimize it. (Hopefully, with regression testing going on)
5. Keep maintaining forever. (Software is never finished)

## What is my tip-of-the-week?
My tip for this week must be to *START AHEAD* and *STAY AHEAD*. This has nothing to do with being an _eager beaver_, it has everything to do with helping *YOURSELF*. So that when life happens, it does not hit you as hard. If I hadn't been ahead of the curve and plowed through most of the project during the weekend I probably would not have finished in time. It is also rewarding to help people when they post questions on Piazza and to be "ahead" of the lecture by already having questions about the project which tend to be answered during lecture.